welcome to the
eighth
episode seventh episode of the padreon i
think it's the eighth episode of the
padre honorable
i
i i'll tell you right now because i have
i have them listed uh the people
listening are like why why why
why do you care
uh like this is a lot of the times
actually james and i will be talking
about something like i can't remember
that person's name the eighth it's the
eighth episode of the padreon uh this is
another pre-recorded episode and this is
actually a pre-pre-recorded episode
because
nick sneezed uh because we tried
recording this once already and the
recorder died which we're having issues
with i mean like it wouldn't it wouldn't
be the james and nick show if it wasn't
audio yeah if there's a microphone
involved it's gonna [ __ ] up
um but yeah today we're talking about
mythology and religion and magic
and all of that kind of stuff well the
title i had on the board is fantasy
magic mythology and religion yeah
um and we got off by
me in the last go-around of trying to
record this by me saying nick get us
started and then nick saying okay james
what's your opinion on
um
you're like you started out like you're
like i don't know if i can really talk
about this you get us started i'm like
okay james tell me about your early
fantasy james 10 minutes talking yeah uh
so yeah i guess i'll just reiterate um
the expedited version my my earliest
kind of foray into fantasy
was a thousand and one nights um because
i was a super fan of aladdin and so i
started reading
the source material which i think was a
much sanitized version like it was kind
of the children's book version
version
uh no not the way
figuratively yeah
um
and so i read that because i was like
super nerd child
um
actually i think it was like a duck
tales book wow of it i think that's cool
um
and then you know continued to be a nerd
and then hercules came out disney's
hercules because everything is about
disney
um and
it's about disney from the era when
disney stayed in this lane
yeah
but then i became absolutely infatuated
with greek mythology specifically um
hades in the mythology around hades and
persephone and this the spring and
demeter and all that kind of stuff
um
i just found that endlessly fascinating
didn't really care about the heroes or
anything yet uh didn't know
like achilles and patrick list now that
you mentioned that like i was really
excited to take classics classes in
university
and
uh there were two primarily classics
courses that focused around mythology
one of them was like heroes and one of
them was the gods
they weren't offering the gods course
when i was going in and that's lame i
just went through the heroes course
which not only was very very lame
but very very lame but like
it was the most boring class i'd ever
been to
so yeah my professors had no charisma it
was just ridiculous my university had no
classes like that but i did take a class
on urban mythology oh that would be so
cool which which was literally like you
know like the
you get into your car after a late shift
and there's someone in the back seat and
like urban myths and stuff it was it was
really cool um
but yeah so i became obsessed with greek
mythology
uh just dove down that rabbit hole and
like i was i said in our last go-around
my only disappointment with it because
as i was being becoming obsessed with
this it was right around the time that
we were coming up to the millennium and
because i was a very anxious child and i
have grown into a very anxious adult
um i was
horrified at the concept of the end of
the world
um because one day in a convenience
store as we were buying like chips or
something for a wrestling show that
night
um
crisps for uh our british listeners
[Music]
there was you know some tabloid rag
on the magazine shelf and it was like
the world will end on january 1st 2000
and that did not sit well with me
um
so i know it went from you know like
computers are gonna start crashing too
the world is going down oh yeah jesus is
coming back yeah uh this was
specifically what this was uh it said
like jesus is coming back jesus is
coming to judge you or something like
that like isn't the actual like capital
m millennium like a few years after the
lower case evidence such a confusing
mess
um
so i had a great tribulationist uh
christianity folks like
so i had a
horrible fear of the end of the world
and so
i was disappointed that there wasn't a
like set in stone
apocalyptic myth in greek mythology but
there is the the sort of resurgence of
the titans it's kind of it's never
depicted as kind of vague and
foreshadowed yeah like i think it's like
the second titanomachy is kind of the
end of the world
um
actually they won the gigantic that was
there were hercules helped them with
that hercules pan and all of the young
the second generation gods were involved
in legitimacy yeah cause you because it
was like a part of the myth that the
gods couldn't win but humans could or
something like that um
and uh
so yeah i think it was like the second
titanomachy is the apocalypse of greek
myth
um
so i like started looking into other
like apocalypse myth which there's
there's quite a few like especially from
like south american oh yeah mythology
and stuff like that but the one i really
gravitated toward was ragnarok ragnarok
from north smith which got me into north
smith and learning all about that
um
but just like learning about ragnarok is
like i said before
ragnarok works for me
because unlike just like you know a god
is coming to judge you kind of thing
it's a series finale of a tv show it
takes all the characters you've learned
about and it brings them all together
for one final big and that's um
uh it's very ragnarok is very satisfying
in that direction it has like a lot of
things that were like hinted in earlier
seasons and now they're important yeah
yeah yeah yeah um d take notes um
um that's david benioff and david dan
weiss or dan benioff and david
that goes to the [ __ ] game of
thrones guys yeah not dungeons dragon
lady bad um
watch your pearls
uh but no daenerys um ragnarok is
interesting because ragnarok ends the
apocalypse of the christianity which is
not what is in revelations revelations
is not the apocalypse revelations is a
prophecy meant to symbolically represent
the liberate the pending liberation of
the hebrew people
yeah like the actual yeah like yeah
we've come to look at the book of real
the book of revelation as like an end as
a vision of end times but no it was yeah
the current day is like specifically
calling out like roman senators and the
current emperor the horror of babylon is
the roman empire yeah like when you
actually look into
into it like it's incredibly symbolic
allegorical and referential yeah john
the john the something one of the johns
yeah like he was writing it because he
had been exiled
and he was basically you know uh writing
it together anonymous saying he was he
was the original anonymous sending out
messages to people to say like hey you
know they're going to fall they're going
to suck and then rome did fall and he
was writing it to sort of give hope to
the hebrew people using a language
use a language that the romans would not
be
not could read but like using references
that the romans romans would not be
familiar with because they felt familiar
with because they were so rooted in old
testament stuff yeah um which again is
why a lot of you know um there's like in
in the book of revelations there's a
bunch of callbacks to the old testament
which is none to the new testament which
is like why like dollar a dime like
evangelicals kind of say like oh john
was answering these earlier things like
no he was referencing them because the
romans would not be able to decipher
these references yeah they would think
that this is just this weird fantasy
book like no he was very specifically
calling of the roman empire and giving
the hebrew people
um
messages on how to survive the ongoing
invasion the ongoing occupation yeah and
that's actually one of the interesting
things um is that i was you know like i
said like horrified at the concept of
the end of the world
like literally like keeping me up all
night long just crying over this as a
child um
and me not being really willing to talk
to anyone about it
um still you and i have a hard time kind
of talking about that yeah um
my grandmother who was a former nun so
she was very she was very high into
catholicism
um
she wasn't really super catholic i don't
think i ever saw her go to church um but
like she knew the stories and stuff and
so she actually gave me her copy of the
bible
which because she was actually blind
because she um diabetes took her sight
um it was big text
and so it was very easy to read as like
a whenever i was a 10 year old
and so i read the book of revelations
and i was like
there's some [ __ ] there's too much
this is not realistic at all yeah and
like that really kind of helped me calm
down but then i was like oh but the
computers are going to eat us
yeah the christian apocalypse isn't in
revelation isn't there isn't revelations
it kind of has elements but the real
christian apocalypse can be seen i think
it's the book of matthew basically the
christ coming back to earth
um
uh pulling hell onto earth pulling
heaven down to earth and separating the
righteous from the sinners yeah um and
that's what it is
um
when did you know there's the whole the
unbaptized babies and all that stuff uh
and the interesting thing is uh out of
um middle eastern and euro your asian
mythology there are only two
uh apocalypses that go into great detail
about what happens while the world is
ending what happens after the world ends
and that is christianity and that's also
the norse mythology which uh we
referenced with um ragnarok and ragnarok
is just so much more cinematic oh so
much more cinematic yeah like like i
said it's it's a series for now yeah
yeah it's the final season of an awesome
fantasy show um it's just the the norse
were incredibly poetic um and
allegorical people like there's a reason
that the eddas have been published
multiple times in like novel form and
become best sellers yeah specifically
the the poetic edda the prosaic
fictionalized historical document yeah
um
but yeah so that was kind of my first
exposure to fantasy
the end of the world
which explains a lot about my extreme
anxiety complex um my journey into
fantasy is a little bit more wholesome
um i can't really put a date on the
first when i started getting into
fantasy or my first fantasy thing
because like i my mom kind of pulled out
a book of all my like baby stuff and
like even as an early child i would
dictate stories for her to write down
and they all kind of had that element of
fantasy so it was something that i was
always drawn to
um
under the concept of magic like my mom
would make fun of my mom still makes fun
of me because when i was a child i'd
said i'd see i said i would see um
tree fairies yeah like out in the woods
and stuff
um
and i was my ears were kind of pointed
when i was younger i was very elfish
um
excuse me um i mean being a change thing
would explain why i don't why i feel
like i don't belong being a human um
that i would like to figure out how i
can change back um
is it too late for the fae to take me
back
um how many trips to scotland do i have
to make for you to kidnap me
um onward cannot possibly be worse than
this
really though
um that was something that like do i
want to owe my servitude to an anonymous
capitalist corporation with a moral
ambiguity or a morally chaotic fairy who
basically just carts me around the
magical countryside like helping
themselves that really bothered me with
uh
when true blood was airing like you know
you got your wizard not your wizards uh
you got your vampires and your
werewolves and your shifters and all
that kind of stuff and eventually they
got to the faye
and
people were so bothered that they that
the fey were in the show and i'm like do
you know how [ __ ] scary those [ __ ]
are well first of all it helps like you
don't know like you think fairy like oh
tinkerbell
there's a lot more there like you know
you can the show kind of explored that
and unfortunately with that like and
this is on the fan this is
fae has a very particular meaning to it
um i'm only starting to get involved get
into chelsea mythology now uh we'll talk
about my journey through mythology but
like um
there's a bunch of different names they
could have used for the fae
um that would kind of be more
reminiscent of their godly warrior
status yeah um
but my journey through mythology started
with started through
um i was a huge space geek i loved space
i read about space all the time uh like
planets and stuff i used
yeah pretty much that was that was me
that was me i built spaceships out of
lego all the time so like you know
because all the planets were named after
gods i i wanted to know more about that
yeah um and i didn't
i'm not i'm not a [ __ ] i didn't read
the roman ones i went straight to the
greek ones um
so i i don't think i dived quite as deep
as you because like i was involved in a
lot more concurrent fantasy
yeah and like fantasy in my life and
kind of consuming media and once again
like um i said this in the last version
like like
we didn't have a massive budget for
books yeah uh we were kind of
hand-to-mouth for a lot of it
um do you mean libraries are free
that's true but like you i i struggled
with libraries yeah i don't like
libraries um i'm glad that they exist
and people have access to them like i
have a weird thing with libraries
first of all fourth of all it's not that
i need to have something collected on my
shelf it felt weird writing something
that did not belong to me second of all
i don't have to like
go to the library to get a book and then
i would go back and like i don't even i
didn't even like renting movies for that
reason like that was just too much
social that was too much unnecessary
social interaction oh i rented movies
all the time i would go into the video
store with my five dollar bill and i
would wander and wander and it was it
was like if you rented a new release you
got like a bag of chips and the movie
but if you enter if you rented something
old you got like four movies in a bag of
chips and once i discovered slasher
movies it was it was just i was leaving
there with armfuls so like when it comes
to libraries i always feel
the libraries give me this weird
imposter syndrome
like like i go there and i just feel
uncomfortable because i'm like i don't
belong here
they're they're gonna tell me to leave
they're gonna figure out i don't belong
here
um
so um mythology kind in me kind of
kind of um was a passive thing um i was
a bit distracted through a lot of my
kind of formative areas of high school
uh kind of trying
not to be a terrible person
oh by high school i'd gotten into more
yeah normal fantasy but i got to do that
yeah so i i struggled with reading for a
long time
um that's been an online offline thing
in my life um
but i i
towards high school i did kind of dive
into north norse mythology that's kind
of when we started having reliable
internet access yeah i started to go on
these like wikipedia spirals back when
wikipedia was young um
and so that's kind of what the world was
and yeah
and um i i read the aragon series and i
think that might have also hurt my love
for fantasy i when it came to aragon i
had that was after i read i had started
reading harry potter
uh i started reading harry potter in the
seventh grade so i was 12 years old when
i started reading it um
i read it completely out of order i did
uh prisoner of azkaban chamber of
secrets goblet of fire and then
uh philosopher's stone
um because i was like i don't need to
read philosopher's stone i saw the movie
um
i also read lord of the rings the hobbit
the silmarillion i still haven't read a
lord of the rings i tried to and then i
got discouraged and i need to i every
now and then every now and then
my um advice for anyone who wants to
read lord of the rings is skip the first
chapter that was what i did wrong yeah
because i kept tr i read that thing like
i couldn't figure out what was going on
so i reread it like seven times and i i
just gave up yeah because there's a
ridiculous amount of stuff in there
that's not necessary i don't need to
know that much information about hobbits
hobbits not off the bat
but so i had you know gotten into lord
of the rings and harry potter and
then i tr and i was reading a lot of
uh other kinds of fantasy like anne rice
novels and things like that um
gotten into horror fantasy dracula
oh i did read dracula yeah i um i did
stuff like that that was fun and then i
tried and i read the narnia books uh and
then i tried everyone i knew
was reading aragon
and i was like okay i'll go read aragon
so i went to the bookstore and i bought
it
and i got like maybe 50 pages into it
and i was like what is this drivel
like after after like being a 13 year
old at this point
having read like lord of the rings
well like fantasy yeah yes but like
fantasy-wise having read lord of the
rings reading aragon was like what is
this like what was this baby first
fantasy you know necessarily didn't mean
a whole lot to me but it wasn't until i
realized that there was not a single
original thought in those books that i
was like
which makes sense because he was writing
them when he was like 16.
yeah i was gonna say when he was in the
womb i mean like he's never really he
apparently um and multiple people have
backed this up um
doesn't have really much humility about
that
and even though he was 16 he's like
because every person i've met who's an
author is like yeah i'm really glad that
the stuff i wrote when i was 16 will
never see the light of day again yeah
he's like abundantly proud of it um
like to the point where he hasn't
written a single [ __ ] book since then
he has has he yeah what
i forget what it's called but it came
out recently okay okay that was an
elaboration on
the world of aragon
it was like no i think he wrote
something that wasn't aragon basically
okay i i might be wrong but i i'm pretty
i might be wrong too but like you know
like he just had apparently like a
really smug kind of take to it he like
you know like when a lot of authors get
interviews they're like yeah i really
like to thank my fans i you know i do
everything for them like he didn't
really kind of have that yeah um
excuse me um and said they kind of did
like he kind of had that came across as
like yeah i did it myself
i did this and it's like no your parents
work for the publisher
um
he might have changed since then who
knows everyone was a bit of a snot his
parents were agents
either they were agents or editors
okay
uh eknoff uh the um
uh yeah i pronounced it nop for the
longest time i was like the k must be
silent but apparently it's not alfred a
kanop started the publishing company it
must be german since german
but that's that that was also the
publisher that did anne rice
so um
aragon was kind of my last real kind of
venture into
like children's fantasy and then i
decided i had enough of this and then i
started treating salman rushdie
um it's quite a jump quite a joke from
aragon salman rushdie i did enjoy it i i
like salman rushdie's prosaic almost
poetic wrote writing style he's very um
flowery which i'm sure
you hate about you hate that i read that
um it doesn't help
when we're editing your books yeah
um
so like throughout there like mythology
and fantasy always had like meaning to
me i'm very i like being connected to
nature i like
you know being connected to the world if
i had any friends in that little town
that i was in i probably would have been
involved in witchcraft much earlier than
i
i'm getting into now
um even though i consider myself a weird
mix of taoist and pagan and stuff yeah
um
so
when it comes like i also did read harry
potter too yeah you know i think
everybody read harry potter almost
everyone yeah
um the cool kids kidding um
like i eventually got into a lot more
fantasy just like
diving into
it was actually in my 20s that i really
got into fantasy reading you know song
of ice and fire and the kingkiller
chronicles and um the shannara
chronicles from terry brooks
um
like all of that just kind of diving
into i gave the kingkiller chronicles
this college try yeah
um and just diving into a lot more
fantasy but like
fantasy
i don't want to say fantasy is not like
i am interested in fantasy i really
enjoy well well-written fantasy but i
find it hard to get into a lot of
fantasy because
there's an expectation with fantasy
novels
that this shit's gonna go
yeah and on
like if it's like i find a book that i'm
like oh this seems interesting it's like
oh it's a trilogy i'm like oh
cool but when it's like oh here's a book
like you know the eye of the world and
it's like oh there's a could there's 18
books that have to that i have to read
afterwards and they're all a thousand
pages
i'm like you know actually
um
wikipedia is a thing so what and i can
read a synopsis what's a good length
because you know like in any one of
those books there might be a dud
i mean the 18 books there might be yeah
and that's the problem that's a thousand
page dud that's like that's like trying
to get rid of the feast of prose again
yeah or get through the fees for crows
again so like you know there is a point
where like a series is optimal i get
that some people just like reading like
on and on and on and on but like you
know like
um some of us are a little bit more
sensitive to qualitative changes um and
that's not sort of saying like oh we
only look for good authors it's like no
like even good authors have their off
days oh they all have a dog yeah i mean
like i still haven't managed to read
tale of the body thief by anne rice like
i've i just it's book for the vampire
chronicles i have not managed to read it
yeah like and and so like there's gonna
be even though it's a lot of people's
favorite book yeah um and so like you
know i'm not sort of ragging against
authors i'm not sort of like putting
myself on this whitey tweety like like i
only like literature
darling
um but like
so so like some people kind of can't
really jive with things that like
struggle to kind of like be
uh kind of hit the flow of the what what
drew to the series in the first place
yeah so
it's really hard to kind of get in get
into a series that's that long because
there's the anxiety of like what if
there's one of those books and now
there's like
the two fantasy series that i was like
i am enjoying this we're a song of ice
and fire and kill king killer chronicles
both of which
it's been a [ __ ]
decade
since the last book came out and the
authors just keep saying i'm working on
it i'm working on it
i'm working on it
i'm working on it i started over
i'm and it's like oh my christ on a
cross can you please give us some deets
how's it going on a scale of one to ten
how complete is it and you know there
are lots and lots of people who say you
know you can't force creativity and
stuff um
i am of the opinion since i have you
know
i i have gone to film school i have gone
to business school i understand
contracts uh you signed a contract
and you need to if you're having trouble
writing it
get over it but like here's the other
thing that i think i call [ __ ]
because i feel like there's there's a
there's there's a grace period where
it's like i'm having a hard time and
it's like
it takes an extra two years to get the
book out it's like that's understandable
it's a lot of work to write a book a
decade yeah and here's the thing
this is the
novel writing is the only profession
where that happens
it's i don't think it's the only
profession where it happens but i think
it's the only profession where your ass
doesn't get fired for it happening oh
yeah that's true
um because like you know it's or maybe
like painting
yeah there are hiatuses there and like
you know there's a difference between a
hiatus and like hey i'm promising new
material but i am not delivering yeah
excuse me uh that that does not fly in
hollywood
no um not even if you're getting like
paid two million dollars to write show
girls like you keep you keep going you
don't stop like well yeah like your
career your career hinges on momentum
coming from you know business school and
film school in the film industry and and
you know like contracts and stuff like
that
it's it's very much like okay you have
this much money to do this
and you need it done by this day because
if it's not done by this day we're
taking it from you but just like you
know you don't get like the right the
you know the the great writers who are
like i've been working on a script like
the last five years it's just not really
flowing it'll get there eventually it's
like no a movie's trick like someone
writes a movie script in an afternoon
sometimes like yeah
uh well not an afternoon i know like the
the the fastest one that i like the
there was um kevin williamson did the
outline for scream in a weekend
and wrote it in six weeks
and that's like the
of a fast turnaround
um and then got half a million dollars
for it
good for him
very good for him hooray for the gays
hooray for the gays yeah
yeah yeah yeah there you go
right inflection um
so you know you can't even yas correctly
yes so what time what are we at for time
um
27 minutes 27 minutes
um okay so
like as i've gotten older i have become
much more involved with mythology than i
have been
i'm starting to branch out into
celtic mythology um
i don't actually have any irish roots
but you know celtic refers to a very
large um group of people across uh what
is modern day france and also the
british isles all of them why don't you
just go buy a clotter ring you fake
[ __ ]
what a clatter ring
it's it's a it's a celtic symbol oh on a
ring oh i don't do rings um well
there's a lot of people who are like i'm
sure i have celtic heritage it's like
you don't i i
scottish celtic that's my that's where
my
celtic heritage is uh most of my
heritage is actually central european
uh wait is celtic irish or scottish
there is celtic irish and celtic
scottish okay keep in mind that scotland
uh historically might be mistaken was
settled by irish um
by irish people who went north to the
northern part of the island
um and then just because
scotland has a lot of in his bodybuild
territory they couldn't really get
pushed out
not even by the romans
um
because i have um celtic i'm kind of a
mix of celtic and um
slavic which slavic mythology that's
awry very interesting that's a ride and
i want to get involved interested in
that because the celtic mythology unlike
a lot of other pagan uh communities in
europe did commit human sacrifice yeah
so that's really really interesting um
also and you know you may think like oh
the druids did human sacrifice and stuff
uh that is untrue uh that was propaganda
spread by julius caesar during rome's
con conquest of gaelia yeah
um so yeah like i love the
intersectionality of mythology and
history
um
the recent kind of foyer into mythology
is actually fairly greek and roman
centric again yeah i've circled around
back to that
uh and i'm finding lots of very
interesting tidbits of stuff that i
didn't notice there before because
you're actually writing two books that
take
like draw from that the draft yeah
one of them is a you know specifically
high fantasy thing set in rome ancient
rome ancient rome um
uh
bc uh
a.d yeah a
uh about 708 i think the bookstore it's
not a d anymore i think it's like it's
uh common era ce common era yeah which i
don't understand why we can't just keep
the latin it doesn't mean before christ
yeah
um
the gregorian calendar psy um in rome
they actually gauged their year most
people didn't gauge the years most
people didn't give a [ __ ] yeah but in
other official documentation it was um
based on the founding of the city um
and you know you learned that rome
as an empire or kingdom and then empire
existed for about 2 000 years that's
wild
that's crazy
like a singular government system
existing for 2000 years that's insane
yeah because i i think
when we think of ancient rome we kind of
think like oh it fell two thousand years
ago yeah it actually fell like
1500 years ago
like it was around for a while it was
around it was rome was falling longer
than america has been around that's much
true that is much true and that bothers
me about discussions around it's like oh
well rome fell where and we will not and
it's like rome had 2 000 years yeah like
you know like um
i don't think even like uh arabian uh
cultures existed like persia existed for
that long uh uninterrupted yeah um
because you know when it came to um the
city that is now
istanbul
um that very very ancient city
um has swapped hands many many times
yeah um and even though it can be seen
as this as the same culture the name and
the name and the power holders of that
society have swapped over you know very
repeatedly
um
uh fascinating city i've always wanted
to go there um
so yeah like i um
there's so many like weird little
tidbitty things that aren't kind of like
mainstay like greek stories that are
just really really cool that
characterize the gods that expand the
mythology and sort of depict the
relationship between humanity and these
gods and yet people kind of cling to the
the popular ones i think and kind of
really stick on those ones but um and
this is something that hades did really
well as they kind of referenced the game
ladies the game hades yeah uh ref they
referenced the smaller stories that were
really really interesting yeah um
for instance my fixation around the god
pan kind of
uh was cemented when i learned that he
was one of two canonical gods to die in
greek mythology yeah um i really would
like to do more reading about that
specifically because um that's um
referencing a story in real life where a
trail a sailor was sailing from greek to
uh the italian peninsula and he heard a
great voice from across the ocean and
say uh tell everyone the great god pan
is dead yeah um
i just think that's really interesting
it's a very poetic
especially because like the greek gods
unlike the norse gods were immortal they
could not die yeah
um and then you have like this canonical
death and pan was one of the big ones
yeah um probably b-tier in terms of just
like yeah but it wasn't like
heracles where you have you know uh he
wasn't like sylvanas he wasn't like um
the the lesser known like aristeas he
wasn't like one of the lesser known
local ones he was like and he wasn't
like a mixed god human kind of thing
yeah he was he was a god god i mean he
was a goat god but
um
that that was really really interesting
to me
uh so why do you think
fantasy has such a grasp on the stuff
that you write
um
probably is the stain from react for
reality
like i
i i think slice of life stuff can be
kind of boring yeah like i i'm not
really interested in the slice of life
because it's the slice of someone else's
life that's sort of i feel like a lot of
not a fan of mrs dolloway
actually i don't mind virginia woolf
like i can read older stuff um it's
about prose and flow for me yeah what i
write what i read um i do like that that
said the virginia wolf i did read was uh
orlando which is you know magic realism
yeah that's not um
that's not me have you read mrs dolloway
uh it's about a woman planning planning
a party
isn't her husband at a war or something
i forget
anyway it's very much just a day in the
life of a woman kind of i mean but it's
virginia woolf it must be shady as [ __ ]
like i can't imagine there isn't shade
in there that woman was so shady
um
but like so fantasy kind of occupies a
lot of the space of what i want to
develop because like i i guess on a
level i either believe it exists or i
want it to exist yeah um so why doesn't
fantasy really factor into a lot of what
you write and what you plan i don't know
it's it's weird most because you know
lord of the rings lower backwards and
forth yeah like i've
actually read the silmarillion multiple
times
um
i don't know why it doesn't i i
i'm much more grounded in the stuff that
i write
um
even like the movies that i'm working on
with telos now
like they're all
realistic they could all happen do you
think you have this subliminal tug in
the back of your mind where fantasy is
somehow lesser than or somehow
diminished i don't think so because
there are stories there are fantasy
stories i want to tell there's this
grand science fiction epic that i want
to tell
um
there's this
fantasy
story that i have been working on for
years that i that i want to tell there's
fantasy ideas that pop up for movies
that i want to do um
i think it's
that
i feel more comfortable
with
realism
and
because i'm drawing from things that
really exist
whereas
when doing fantasy
i see yeah and i think looking at it
from a pragmatic point of view
the fantasy market is kind for like
books is very
saturated yeah and one thing if i if i
can say is like i feel like that's uh
one thing that you kind of get snagged
on when you're developing your own
content is you start to obsess about the
details like how am i going to publish
this what's the demographic and then
like that that's what happens when i
went to school for marketing yeah and
like just talking and i don't you could
you don't you don't need this creative
process but my creative process is the
more i think about that the more i think
about okay i need to make sure this
chapter isn't too long i'm behind on
pacing i need to keep i need to get
things picked up um
i need to make sure that this is content
geared towards this specific target
people that stops me from writing
because it stops being fun it stops
being interesting it starts being a job
and that makes me not want to do it yeah
um
some people that's how they function
they need tart they need specific
targets they need to go for them and
that's why a lot of the great writers
offering writing advice say like there's
not really anything i can offer you i
can tell you how i do it but i'm not
going to tell you to do it you're i'm
going to i'm not going to tell you to do
it this way yeah because they realize
that you know like if every writer is
the same then every book's the same and
that's absolutely not what needs to
happen as much as publishing would like
that to happen yeah um
uh because one of my like
it's weird because like i don't write a
whole lot of fantasy but i
prefer reading fantasy yeah like not
necessarily high fantasy that's like 18
books long
wheel of time uh i love magic realism
that's what it typically when you have
like kind of um
uh for instance it's a catwoman getting
resurrected in batman returns oh that's
not even what i'm talking about though
okay like i'm like literally you know
like the prince is in a different castle
kind of okay like um
you know so adventure fantasy yeah like
i love adventure fantasy
um and like my favorite book series is
series this is of all time are
the lord of the rings
the vampire chronicles
and the dark tower yeah and they're all
fantasy
um uh stephen king related right
multiverse of madness before
marvel did yes he did
and he did it better though that's not
hard to do
the bar is low
but like the i i just
i i lucked into the dark tower because i
read the gunslinger which is book one
and then
i read the drawing of the three which is
book two
and then stephen king announced that he
was doing books um for our five six and
seven
uh because it had been like a decade
since he has put it since he'd published
one
uh because he'd gotten into the car
accident was like you know who knows how
much time i actually have left so i want
to finish this story
um
and so i kind of lucked into starting
the series just as he was publishing out
the new books oh that's great uh at the
rate he publishes books like yeah i
think like the last three books which
are
uh like 750 pages 500 pages and a
thousand pages
in a year and a half nice um
he was just churning them out
and there's um the eye through the
keyhole is the eighth book um but it's
kind of like an offshoot adventure um
but i dove deep into the dark tower and
just kind of became obsessed with it and
really loved it that's a book that's a
fantasy series i really want to get
invested in because it seems
i love reality [ __ ] yeah so
and there's like dimensional travel and
there's science there's a bit of science
fiction in there there's like high
fantasy like the big villain is more
dread like it's
like there's all sorts of like really
interesting fun stuff in there um
obviously western is also in there
um
and so like
my relationship with fantasy is
i have a very healthy respect for
fantasy
um and i don't think that it's that it
that i feel when i'm writing that i feel
like it's beneath me i feel like i'm
beneath it
that i can't see like with me like i
talk about you about that creating an
entire world is beyond me yeah because
um this is interesting um because like
i've talked about you and like there are
some times that i read something like
wow i really wish i could write a book
like this and you're like you don't have
to you write your books i'm like yeah
but this is so perfect
and i just get like um somebody some new
gaming stuff for just he has this
restraint when it comes to depicting his
magic that i don't have i much more
prefer to explore the world yeah um
uh some other books sometimes like you
know like every time there's like cutesy
romance young adult romances that sell
everyone like i really wish i could
write that
and it's
i just can't it's not me yeah um
how'd we get on that
i lost my train of thought
um no no no okay yeah yeah with fantasy
like i um
i'm not comfortable writing reality
because i feel like i will be called out
for not knowing what the [ __ ] i'm
talking about yeah uh for missing a
detail doing something wrong
um i i have those anxieties about the
avalon night series um especially when
it comes to sport ball stuff um but like
you
have never been to san francisco yeah
but at this point you could probably
find your way around san francisco just
from writing that book yeah i
had uh google maps open constantly
yeah sort of just going through these
things
um
and kind of laying things out kind of
superimposing like the areas that it's
different in this world because
superheroes exist
um
i feel much better taking creative
licenses with reality because i'm less
familiar with reality than what's in my
own imagination yeah because in like a
fantasy world that i create um or you
know a real world that i recreate with
fantasy in it
i can control that i have more control
over that so i know what is correct and
what's incorrect um i know the systems
of how magic and science fiction and
whatever work in this world um
which leads me to something else i want
to talk about systems of magic in
fiction
uh yeah like soft magic hardware soft
magic hard magic what works well what
work doesn't you mentioned harry potter
i'd like to start there because
that's kind of like the most obvious
magic because it's literally casting
spells yeah but at the same time how
well is it actualized in the first seven
books
well there are only seven books i mean
like outside of any other media that's
been introduced like in the for in the
seven books
how well does it act does it actually
get actualized because there are a lot
of really weird things in that world
where like i i i kind of was uh came up
in writing with the explaining the
understanding like when you make a
system of magic the system of magic
needs to have rules and you cannot break
these rules because you're already
breaking reality with them and yeah the
way i kind of always looked at it and i
might be wrong she who must not be named
might disagree with me on most things
actually yeah um but
i always kind of looked at the magic in
those books as language based because
whenever you cast a spell and you said
the wrong
uh
in you
pronounce something wrong or the wrong
you put the emphasis on the wrong
syllable something like that the spell
would go awry yeah and so i always kind
of thought it was very language based
yeah which didn't make sense to me in
the movies when people could start
casting spells without speaking yeah and
like that's not for visual effect but
sure but with like i found i feel like
because in the movies they didn't want
to have that anime thing where you know
you announce your attack yeah
i hate that
um
and like i and that that did kind of
seem a bit stupid to me in the book
because it was like a italicized
vlatinized word with an explanation
point oh counterspell uh they do a
stream connect
um
uh is daniel radcliffe's face in the
first fourth movie when he's doing that
that is a face um
oh in the
graveyard the graveyard i
the harry potter books are like three
different series meant for three
different age ranges
and each one is des and each subsequent
one is desperately trying to retcon the
earlier ones
um yeah it's kind of book one and two
and then three four five and then six
and seven yeah and they are
there are areas where magic is so
incredibly broken for instance the
biggest one i don't like is the killing
curse of attica davera it's like
so it cannot be countered it cannot be
countered freaking fantastic beast
movies
it cannot be countered it cannot be
blocked
and it kills you instantly and i'm like
the human body is a very complex thing
and if one thing goes wrong you could
die
you do not need a killing curse yeah you
do not need a killing curse you you
could have a i'm sending a magical spear
through your chest curse yeah like and
you can also have it so that it's
countered you could have it so that
certain spells are very difficult to be
countered but it seems too absolute
especially in a nation which just
already banned guns that that that that
it seemed like if you want to have a
vatican ever in american schools
like i feel like that's more of a thing
because of like mass shootings and stuff
um well it's the whole it's the
unforgivable curse yeah the killings
curse the torture the
uh torture curse and the control curse
yeah like they're the unforgivable
curses um
[Music]
and so and in the movies especially in
the books especially some cur some
spells had visual effect like a beam
other spells didn't in the movies it's a
mess yeah um
in the books it makes a little more
sense
because the only person that can
actually
um
uh
go against the avada cadaver curse is
harry
and that's specifically because
voldemort can't kill him
um or i forget the rules i haven't read
it power of love james yeah the power of
love uh the power of friendship um
a mother's love
but yeah harry potter is a very baby's
first magic system yeah but then it
tries not to be and i think that's where
the problem started to arrive is when
they started to match your eyes and
started trying to explain all these
things
also the random teleporting what's that
called again not flu not whooping that's
fruit powder flu powder blue powder the
uh no the operating oh you can pretty
much just operate anywhere in the world
yeah like it's like no big deal it's
like that that's kind of it
it's kind of dumb it removes the other
methods of transportation as a viable
means of like moving and it once again
it's kind of asking like why did you
create flu powder when you can just
report keys it's like oh because uh you
need uh young young people can't do it
so we need to do it for young people
it's like okay but why do you have port
why do you have older people using port
keys in the fourth book then yeah if
someone's touching you while you're
operating they can go it with you even
if they're young so yeah the rules her
rules are dumb and it is like as i much
prefer the magic system in lord of the
rings yes which is like gandalf and
saruman use a little bit of magic um
gandalf shoots some light beams it seems
to be
mostly like magic yeah happened
thousands of years ago yeah the magic
was more
alchemy and not just that but the magic
is connected to the world to the earth
so the the the caster needs to
call upon their connection to the the
land yeah like frodo you can't learn
magic because he doesn't have that
connection like spirits can use magic
yeah and elves okay well elves are like
spiritual things but like the maya
spirits and stuff like that dwarves
cannot because they do not have a
connection to magic because they're
obsessed with well to the world because
they're obsessed with wealth well
they're ex
it's not necessarily wealth it's more
that they they
are mining into the world they are
taking from the world and so they can't
ask the world yeah for you know they
don't they don't have a rapport yeah
yeah because it's just a resource to
them
yeah whereas like the nas ghoul have
magic because like like i said in the
last episode about the jedi versus the
sith they oppose the world so they draw
magic from outside of it and use it to
subjugate yeah if i'm you correct me if
i'm wrong the nazca really don't use
magic very much um their magic really
emanates from their rings
um which again is more alchemy based
yeah um
and yeah like that is a big thing in
like a lot of older magic too is like um
it's we look at magic now like you know
like oh the members of the party the
wizard throws this fireball like the way
magic has been throughout history um has
been like
um
magic and witchcraft takes time
preparation and familiarity yeah uh
witchcraft specifically is about being
connected to a specific local region
and having dominion over that
um whereas other areas of magic are
about you know likely lengthy rituals uh
calling upon spirits and powers um and
that takes time and it's not something
you can do in a pinch yeah um so like
you're all if someone gets a hold of you
you're [ __ ] yeah um
so yeah
yeah that there's actual like casting
involved that's not just saying a word
and something comes out of your fingers
yeah uh it's not the harry potter system
which is basically just
special guns
uh i i like the witcher's system of
magic i've read some of the witcher
books um
i like i like that system of magic a lot
because it's uh it's kept deliberately
vague it's kept academic
um and at the same time it's like only
search everyone can technically use
magic but certain people have aptitude
that will let them use more complex
spells and incantations yeah like i
love the magic system in a song of ice
and fire
because it is very very few people can
use magic very very it's ritual based
it's just almost exclusively around
doing rituals
it's religious
yeah you are asking a god to do
something for you if someone got the red
woman against a against a wall with a
hand to her throat she's she's useless
yeah but if she has the time to prepare
a spell she can assassinate someone from
halfway across the continent the shadow
baby thing shadow baby
um kill your gaze um
[Music]
poor ramsay you're so attractive
friendly renly he was so hot yeah ramsay
was not the attractive one
ramsay but
i don't know
i mean
personality personality goes a long way
jake like not personality wise but i
mean i wouldn't kick him at a bit
the actor is very attractive yeah wasn't
he not attractive in the book depicted
as being like oh yeah he's like gross in
the book yeah yeah yeah
um
but you know they want to have that kill
killing stalking vibe so yeah
[Laughter]
why did nobody ship them i'm sure people
did i know people did
ramsay and theon
uh i really like it when they mix
science fiction and fantasy
kind of have either explicit magic
system in space
or star wars something
i wouldn't say that's a magic system
that's super powers
okay
um and and i i and you're allowed to
disagree with me because my distinction
in my head is very vague but i mean like
a magic system is like have like oracles
and like learn some more tunes yeah yeah
yeah uh that that's the magic system
with the benny jesuit yeah whereas uh
star wars is super powers yeah yeah it
is yeah yeah um
still both fantasies yeah um but yeah
but oddly
dune has more
magic than star wars but is considered
harder fantasy than star wars i wouldn't
disagree because a lot of the technology
and star wars are harder science fiction
than star wars oh yeah absolutely star
wars is much more fantasy than dunas
yeah because star wars has like
superpowers if the millennium falcon has
a dragon or a noble steed then they're
writing it into battle yeah um sort of
thing luke skywalker's x-wing is a horse
yeah um
they're literally knights jedi knights
um and i it's very arthurian yeah i i
still would love to read through dune it
seems like a really interesting story i
hate that it takes place on a desert
planet and that's it um
i mean you do
bounce around a bit as the i know i know
because they terraform doing it some at
one point where it's not a desert
anymore
um i it's like the thing i feel about
doing with that is like it's mostly
verse of madness with me like why you
want to make a science fiction a space
hopping science fiction thing and only
have it on one planet why do you want to
travel across the multiverse if you only
go to two like well because it's not a
space hopping science fiction thing it's
really
kind like an algorithm exploration
allegorical exploration of the
subjugation of the middle east by um
you know
western
basically yeah and kind of
a a look at the power struggles of
the white men
above the yeah the people of color who
they are subjugating even if it's like
the nice white man he's still
subjugating them yeah yeah
and then there's they're not nice
it's subjugation subjugation with a
smile yeah
baron harkin who
kills and rapes children little boys
he's the bad one they represent the
russians i guess a bad one
um
well yeah harkenan is a
they i i'm pretty i think they the the
harkenings are very
russian coded like when you read the the
especially the first book the harkenings
don't really aren't that important going
forward but
they're uh they're very important in the
prequel books written by his son but
they're not very important for the
um
the actual dune series
as much as
you know duncan idaho
duncan idaho uh the naming convention in
that story um
one thing i really really love is
ambiguous fantasy
not really sure whether what would that
be uh catwoman getting resurrected like
i said in the video okay she's not
really sure whether she got resurrected
by cat magic or if she just survived
with severe head trauma
um but you know she does go through nine
la eight lives yeah um
uh what's a ghost of tsushima it's not
really clear whether there's actual
magic involved in there um or these by
being guided by the gods i i love that
yeah uh because i i always default to
yes it's magic uh because i love
you know magic existing in very urban uh
kind of ways ways that are very
difficult to discern and that we would
not
accept his magic because it's not a
wizard throwing fireballs yeah but you
know like the world having its own kind
of system of magic that's very subtle
and difficult to tap into
yeah that's one of the reasons i loved
final fantasy 10
um
because although you know there's
there's
magic mana attacks you know like
fireball lightning bolt stuff like that
the actual magic system in the the
cannon of the game with uh yuna and
stuff like that is very much asking the
spirits of the planet
to assist you
um
asking the spirits of the planet to heal
and and things like that it's it's much
more nature based
than
um you know just you know wizard throws
his fireball yeah firewall 10 pf
pp
uh hp no no
ability points or ability points
points yeah um i had a friend who
instead of describing instead of using
the um autistic or asd spoon system they
use uh ap
i like how much ap they have i like that
uh that is really cute um he's also a
huge gamer so
um nerd nerd um i also love just
complaining as we sit here talking about
mythology and fantasy for now uh jumping
on that he's the one i play league of
legends with a lot yeah um jumping off
of that uh i also love just chaotic um
systems of magic
like league of legends which like there
are no rules yeah um where it's like
it's instead of uh instead of magic
being this like kind of monolithic thing
it's like there are different realms of
magic you can tap into and they all kind
of conflict with each other but it's
okay because that's not what you're here
for um and like if you get so many
conflicting systems of magic it works
because these are consistent there are
enough of them that it doesn't need to
make sense yeah it's just chaos like
it's great um
one thing i'm actually interested by the
um
thor ragnarok trailer buy i still
haven't watched it i've watched i've
seen clips or rag
is like kind of the mix of
norse and greek mythology yeah and
that's actually something i'm going i'm
really wanting to do with the sovereign
wilds which is an upcoming um
fantasy well in it all the pantheons
exist and you're going around killing
them yeah yeah and like in in the book
i'm writing is like okay how do i create
oh my only
like
criticism of the trailer is
i wish gore didn't have a nose i wish he
had the flat face but i understand that
they might have been like that's very
pale with flat face it's very voldemort
oh yeah yeah yeah so they might have not
wanted to go in there and christian bale
does have that face shape
yeah yeah
uh but yeah like and so the kind of
project that i gave to myself with the
sovereign wilds was i want to create a
world
where
all the gods all of these pantheons can
exist not only these pantheons can exist
but all how can all of their origin
stories and histories exist yeah and all
be true and i kind of have it that like
as you move into different realms uh
where gods hold dominion the history of
the world changes yeah and the origin of
the world and the mechanics of the world
change
so that someone who knows witchcraft in
southern europe their magic doesn't work
in northern europe because the spirits
are different are different they speak
different languages they understand
different stories and they hold
different things as having different
symbologies yeah which is how you can
have everything be true and then have
this um
singular monolithic
salty imperial god yeah um monotheistic
god really not liking the chaos and
wanting to kind of imperialize it all to
kind of streamline it yeah um as the
series goes on
and so that's kind of how i want to go
for that go from there and um i'm really
interested in like how conflicting
systems can interact and stuff yeah um
and like i said it's i i get to control
the rules so i have a fun time with it
um but that one's also fun because i
have to play within the confines of
history and kind of suss out the
interesting parts of history in that
given in a given 20-year span yeah
around the 700 a.d
but um
that's most of most of what i got to say
about that
and also kind of just re-reading my
theory that and kind of my take that uh
comic books and superheroes kind of
function as our modern day mythology oh
absolutely
um
like
you know superman is jesus
like it's it's obvious that superman is
jesus not even like as an allegorical
sense but just kind of speaking to a
modern context like what superman the
values that superman represents the
value that spider-man represents and
what batman represents and how these
characters even though some of them are
flawed and tragic how they shape our
culture because they are very easy to
get passed around i was going to say i
think the difference is you know when
you look back at the different
mythologies
um
the heroes
were very flawed heracles was very
flawed achilles was very flawed they had
anger issues and stuff like that whereas
modern day
you have superman who is flawless
more or less
and i think that creates a
a kind of
i want to say a disconnect but like
that's what makes it
difficult for it to be
super superman yes but like you know
look at batman and he has batman is not
super powers does that super does fit
into the modern that's what i mean by
modern mythology achilles had no clear
superpowers so it's not about a demigod
they never homer never explained if
achilles had any super strength all he
said about achilles was that he was the
greatest fighter of the generation yeah
um so like he killed his boyfriend he
got tilted
till dead triggered um
slowly insofar as like batman function
there he is part of this this comic book
universe he is a superhero he is
theatric he
is rooted in symbology yeah um and so i
think he is a superhero so regardless of
superpowers or not he is part of the
mythological canon of our day and age
absolutely
and he is very flawed same as like luke
skywalker right yeah yeah exactly um
like in 500 years you could tell the
story of luke skywalker and the fall of
the empire and stuff and it could be
mythology
and you do have other characters who do
have superpowers and are incredibly
flawed like the scarlet witch like jean
grey
um like magneto
um
uh marvel seems to lean a lot heavier
and heavily or into that well yeah
there's a better end for work there's a
dichotomy between them that dc is god's
trying to be humans and marvel as humans
trying to be gods yeah um
and i i i don't i never really disagree
with that i think that's very abundantly
true even when it comes to like they're
like dc's lower line characters or
marvel's upper line characters yeah the
relationship of being related to gods
kind of factors into these characters
and how they function on like a very
base level yeah um
jason todd another very flawed character
also mythological
or fantasy based he was resurrected he
was resurrected yeah literally by
lazarus and according to um this new
game lazarus pit the the new arkham
knights game he has magic boots
not magic he has magic feet he can jump
across the air
oh yeah because he got super powers from
being in the lazarus pit
okay people hate it
people hate everything about that game i
know nothing about the game i have not
seen one person say anything positive
about it i know nothing about the game
yet
um
but yeah it is interesting kind of
looking back at mythology
and seeing how it permeates
modern day stuff
even to the extent of like you look at
certain fascist regimes and how they
took hold of mythology ancient mythology
and sometimes even misappropriate it oh
they always misappropriate it because
the nazis like to leave out that the
aesir were immigrants yeah the vania the
peace-loving vayner were the locals they
were the natives yeah um but like the
it's just not the not just the nazis
there's plenty of different oh yeah
absolutely the aunties i think are the
most obvious example because they really
latched on well yeah because they were
actually looking into the occult and
stuff yeah
little crazy whereas the soviets didn't
really latch on to um slavic myth
no which i feel like is a missed
opportunity probably a missed
opportunity you could have scared the
[ __ ] out of capital let's be like
[Laughter]
she's coming um and also like
uh but at the same time mythology and
rediscovering mythology is having a
massively important effect on
reconstructing formerly colonized
communities yeah um that's true here in
canada uh in the americas
um native communities native communities
especially um
you see that in some southern american
areas where there's there's a big kind
of in the jewish community there's a big
um
reaching back into hebrew mythology and
kind of bringing that into more not
mainstream belief but kind of teaching
your kids about it and stuff because
it's just so mythology is really really
cool yeah and because it shows
i think that like
we are
a people who
have
thousands of years of stories
back before the world was as it is now
kind of thing yeah back when the world
had magic
um
and it's kind of saying like
as the jewish people
we were here when the world had magic
and i think that's very heartwarming
yeah it's very it it's very hopeful yeah
because you see that a lot in ireland uh
yeah yeah really big in ireland
reclamation of old stories you see that
a lot in scandinavia less so to a you
know actual practicing degree outside of
iceland they practice in iceland they
practice north uh heathenism north
mythology yeah uh the rel the religion
is called heathenism uh in iceland and
as as per a um commenter mentioned in
spain
i don't know you remember that
i think i remember yeah someone pointed
out that they prac there are areas of
spain that practice uh norse mythology
because there were a lot of viking
settlements on the coast of spain
because that's well the vikings came
here
yeah the vikings did come here but like
i'm just like even though spain swing
was um they left but they came here
because they were like it's [ __ ] cold
it's [ __ ] cold
uh
the vikings say it's too cold yeah the
vikings set up a lot of trade posts
around the uh mediterranean coast and
some of them were quite very very
significant
so yeah mythology mythology fantasy
and the religions that they have
inspired it's very it's all interesting
it's i could go on and on and on that's
something that i honestly dislike about
the christianization because like the
crystallization that was peddled to
europe and the rest of the world was so
dry
yeah and lifeless you had this colorful
these colorful sagas and you replaced it
with jesus jesus was nice to some people
now we're going to be mean to you yeah
it's like jesus fish and bread
jesus fish in bed and we're going to use
the stories of jesus's kindness to
oppress you and like that replaced
gilgamesh and like in kidu and all of
this like lots of very queer stories
like yeah for instance kukulen
there is a very obvious queer reading to
that yeah uh and in some ways that are
even and i mean in egypt mythology
there's literally
gay gods
semen drinking semen eating incest um
well we don't need to associate
queerness with incest i mean no no it
was his uncle
oh yeah horace's uncle i mean but then
again when it comes to gods and families
it's always very loose so and then we
got the abrahamic religions which are
just so boring islam is a little bit
more interesting
mythologically speaking like the earlier
well yeah but
hebrew mythology is super interesting
too it's christian mythology that's
[ __ ] boring yeah yeah like although
some of the old testament's really
interesting but it's very so moral but
again it is very moralized and a lot of
the old testament and so far as it's
translated into english is lifeless it
doesn't really have any life or
character to it it's it's like i said
last night in the stream like it's uh we
did the stream last night by the way um
it's a it's a presentation
it's time to present something to you
aside from the story it's like yeah
these guys were like this there's
nothing about character there's
something about what these characters
were
or or anything it's just very dry yeah
yeah mythology apology so our next
episode will be back to normal it won't
be pre-recorded so it will be more
topical um than
ranting about mythology and comic books
um
and star wars and star wars and star
wars star wars is comic books
um yeah yeah
unless nick decides to stay in ontario
for a bit longer and then i'll do a solo
podcast
the solo cast the solo cast uh so thank
you guys so much for listening thank you
for being patrons you are all amazing
and
happy pride month
it is pride month
yeah well it will be when this comes out
yeah so happy pride month go be queer
don't give your money to corporations
with rainbow logos go have a protest
go
god knows there's lots to protest yeah
um
and go have a good time and
don't get
monkey pox
or chicken pox or small pox or any of
the pox i wonder if you've gotten
chicken pox twice if you're immune to
monkey pox i think chicken pox the
second time is
shingles
because i've had it twice the second
time was not as severe i only had it
once okay thank god i think no no it's
if you don't get chicken pox you can get
shingles no it's if you do then you're
predisposed to getting shingles because
the virus is already in you okay
so anyway biology
so yeah thank you guys so much smart
thank you so much for listening my name
is james i'm nick